Let's start by discussing one comeback visualization that
summarizes the descriptive statistics,
which is the whisker and box plot. Box and whisker plot
summarizes multiple aspects of the data in a single compact
visualization, the median, the upper quartile,
which is the 75 percentile we discussed earlier, the lower quartile,
which is the 25 percentile we discussed earlier, the upper extreme value,
which is defined as the upper quartile plus 1.5 interquartile
range. The interquartile range is the interval between the
upper quartile and the lower quartile.
The extreme value,
which is defined as the lower quartile minus 1.5 interquartile
range. Whisker is the line extending between the upper extreme and
the upper quartile and the line extending between the lower
extreme and the lower quartile.
Finally, outliers are values outside the upper and lower extremes.
The whisker and box plot helps to summarize descriptive statistics. It is also useful to detect potential outliers in the dataset.